hey this is pressure Walker reminding
you to mind your decisions this is the
maths trick that's blowing up the
internet right now Ben Stevens tweeted
out this fun trick X percent of Y is
equal to y percent of X how does it work
he also provided an example let's say
you want to do 4 percent of 75 that's
not that easy to do what you imagine in
your head is flipping the two numbers so
you instead calculate 75 percent of 4
that's much easier because that's equal
to 3 therefore 4 percent of 75 is also
equal to 3 why does this trick work we
start out with X percent of Y which is
mathematically represented as x over a
hundred that's X percent and of Y means
multiplied by Y since we're multiplying
x and y they commute so we have Y over a
hundred multiplied by X and now Y over a
hundred is y percent and we're going to
take that of X so we've shown that X
percent of Y is equal to y percent of X
here's another example of using the
trick let's say wanted to calculate 16
percent of 25 what you instead do in
your head is flip the two numbers and
you take 25 percent of 16 which is
easier to do and that's equal to 4
therefore 16 percent of 25 is also equal
to 4 now this trick can also be useful
in more complicated calculations let's
say you needed to do 25 percent of 110
plus 11 percent of 250 at first it
doesn't look like this trick will be
very useful for what you can do is you
can factor 250 into 25 and 10 we're now
going to flip the 25 and the 11 percent
so we again flip these two numbers so we
have 25 percent of 11 types 10 now 11
times 10 is equal to 110 so we now have
25 percent
of 110 plus 25% of 110 this will be
equal to 50% of 110 which is much easier
to do and that's equal to 55 so we've
solved a rather complicated problem with
this neat little trick thanks for
watching these math videos available for
free on YouTube build confidence for
students and inspire mathematical
discovery for viewers around the world
they have over a hundred million views
and the channel has over 1 million
subscribers please subscribe for free to
get the newest videos and email me a
puzzle or math topic pressure and mind
your decisions calm if you so choose you
can check out my merchandise on
teespring
you can check out my books listed in the
video description and you can support me
on patreon thanks for watching and
thanks for your support